Introduction
------------

This package is designed to make the building of ooRexx document PDFs and/or
HTML files from their DocBook source files accessible to anyone running Windows.
While this package has been developed and tested on Windows 10, it should also
run on other Windows versions.

Installation
------------

This package consists of two parts - the files located in the docs/trunk/tools
folder on SVN and the external packages which they require.  These packages need
to be installed by running the Setup program which will down-load them, expand
the zip files and, where necessary, copy files to their proper locations.  Once
this has been done, this package is designed to be self-contained; i.e. no other
down-loads or installations are required in order to use it.

The tools are all invoked from the command-line so this package should be placed
into a folder that will be dedicated to building the documents.  It is
recommended that the folder not be a system folder or sub-folder since the
output files will be written to sub-folders of the tools folder.  For the same
reason, executing the tools from the SVN working copy folder where the documents
and tools files are located may not be desirable.

Once the folder has been created and the files and sub-folders in this package
have been copied into it, run the Setup program.  Then, opening a command prompt
to that folder will allow access to all of the tools without requiring any
changes to the path.

The tools can make use of some special fonts which are not a standard part of
Windows 10.  Not having those fonts will not prevent the documents from being
built but their appearance will not be exactly the same as those that are part
of an ooRexx release.  The special fonts are included in the package should you
want to install them.  They will be located in the Liberation Fonts sub-folder
after running the Setup program and directions for installing fonts can be found
at https://www.digitaltrends.com/computing/how-to-install-fonts-in-windows-10/

Setting the path to the document folder
---------------------------------------

In addition to the tools in this package, the source for the documents is
required.  This can be obtained by doing an SVN checkout from SourceForge.  Note
that you must checkout the entire documents folder and not just an individual
book since there are common parts that are shared by all of the documents which
are located in their own folder.  The tools need to know the location of the
folder where the document source files are stored and that information is saved
in an environment variable named docpath.  A command file named docpath.cmd is
provided that takes one argument, the path to the folder where all of the
document source files are located, which will set the environment variable for
use by the other tools.  This needs to be run only once prior to running any of
the other tools.  Alternatively, if the location of the svn working copy is
always going to be the same, you can add the docpath environment variable to
your system or create a shortcut that opens a command prompt to your tools
folder and runs the docpath command automatically.

Specifying which document to build
----------------------------------

Once the path to the document source files has been set, the name of the
particular document you wish to build needs to be specified.  This is normally
done by executing the docprep command file which takes one argument, the name of
the document you wish to build.  E.g. in order to build the ooRexx Reference you
would run docprep rexxref.  In addition to saving the name of the document in an
environment variable named whichdoc, this command file takes care of making the
common files available in a Common_Content sub-folder for the following steps.
This is a workaround for the fact that the source files were structured to be
built by the Publican system which is no longer being supported.

Transforming the DocBook XML to XSL-FO
--------------------------------------

Building a PDF document from source is a two step process - transforming the
DocBook XML into an XSL-FO file using some customized DocBook stylesheets and
then creating the PDF from the XSL-FO file.  The doc2fo command file will run
the first of these steps and produce the .fo file in a sub-folder of the tools
folder named fo_files.  The command does not take any arguments as both the path
to the source files and the name of the document are saved in environment
variables.  Any errors found during the transform are displayed on the console.

Creating the PDF from the XSL-FO
--------------------------------

Once the transform step has been successfully completed, the fo2pdf command will
create the .pdf file in a sub-folder named PDF_files.  The command does not take
any arguments as the location of the .fo file and any graphic files to be
included can be determined from the saved environment variables.  This step also
produces a .log file in the log_files sub-folder containing the many messages
that would normally be displayed on the console by this step.  Unless there are
problems with the output file, this .log file may safely be ignored.

A shortcut that combines steps
------------------------------

One more command file has been provided - doc2pdf.cmd - which takes one optional
argument.  If the name of a document is provided, this command will run the
three commands docprep <doc. name>, doc2fo, and fo2pdf consecutively.  If the
argument is not specified, only the doc2fo and fo2pdf commands are run.  You can
use this shortcut if you are revising the source for a document and wish to
repeatedly rebuild it after each change.

Transforming the DocBook XML to HTML files
------------------------------------------

In addition to producing PDF files, the package can produce HTML files as well.
This only requires a single step and is accomplished by running the doc2html
command which takes one optional argument.  If the name of a document is
provided, this command will run the the docprep command described above before
transforming the DocBook XML into HTML files.  If the argument is not specified,
you must have run docpath and docprep prior to running doc2html in order to save
both the path to the source files and the name of the document in environment
variables.  There are many HTML files produced for each document and they are
created in a sub-folder named HTML_folders\<doc. name>\.  Pointing a browser at
the index.html file in that folder will display the initial page of the document
from which it is then possible to navigate to all parts of the document.


Summary
-------

Run docpath <path to document source folders>
Then run docprep <name of document to build>

To build a PDF:
run doc2fo
And finally fo2pdf

To build a set of HTML files:
run doc2html

Optional Parameters
-------------------

It may be desirable at times to specify additional parameters for the transform
step and/or the step that creates the PDF/HTML files.  This can be done without
modifying the command files by setting the appropriate environment variables.
For example issuing the command "set xslt_opts=--param toc.max.depth 4" before
running the doc2fo command file would result in the Table Of Contents having
four levels rather than the default of three and "set xslt_opts=--timing" would
cause timing messages for each of the steps in the transform process to be
displayed.  The PDF creation step uses a Java program named FOP and parameters
for Java can be specified using the fop_opts environment variable.  An example
might be to increase the Java heap space to 2GB by issuing the command
"set fop_opts=-Xmx2048M".  You might need to do this if you are building the
largest of the ooRexx documents.
