Sources for the tools in this package
-------------------------------------

This package contains multiple tools and files which were collected from various
locations.  In most cases they are being used unmodified but in others, changes
have been made.  This file provides information on where the tools were found in
case the user needs further documentation about them.

Fonts
-----

The style sheets supplied by Publican call for the use of two sets of fonts that
were developed by RedHat - Liberation Sans and Liberation Mono.  These font
packages are available here:
https://www.fontsquirrel.com/fonts/liberation-sans
https://www.fontsquirrel.com/fonts/liberation-mono
The unzipped contents of both are put in the Liberation Fonts sub-folder by the
setup.rex program.

XSLTPROC
--------

This is the transform tool whose home page is here:
http://xmlsoft.org/XSLT/xsltproc2.html
A link on that page takes you to the page where the Windows binaries can be
downloaded: https://www.zlatkovic.com/projects/libxml/
There are actually four packages that are required: libxlt, libxml, iconv and
zlib.  The unzipped versions of those packages are placed by setup.rex in
sub-folders of this package.  Each of them has a bin\ directory containing the
executables that must be accessible.  Rather than adding them to the path, the
contents have been copied to the main package directory.  No changes were made.

FOP
---

This is the Apache tool used to create the PDF whose home page is here:
https://xmlgraphics.apache.org/fop/2.6/
The unzipped version of this package is placed in a sub-folder by setup.rex. As
the program is run by executing a .bat file, nothing needed to be copied in
order to make it accessible.  No changes were made.

DocBook DTD and Style Sheets
----------------------------

The transform process needs access to the DocBook DTD and the DocBook style
sheets.  While these can be retrieved when needed over the Internet, performance
can be improved by up to a factor of 100 by accessing them locally.  The DTD
files are at http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/4.5/docbook-xml-4.5.zip and
the unzipped version is placed in a sub-folder by setup.rex.  The style sheets
are at
https://github.com/docbook/xslt10-stylesheets/releases/download/release/1.79.2/
in the docbook-xsl-nons-1.79.2.zip file.  The unzipped version is also placed in
a sub-folder by setup.rex.  No changes were made to either of these packages.

In addition to the unmodified style sheets, there are four style sheets that are
copied from the Publican tools located in our SVN repository on Source Forge:
https://sourceforge.net/projects/oorexx/files/windows-build-tools/
The file PublicanWindows.zip contains a directory Publican\xsl\ and from it the
files defaults.xsl, pdf.xsl, html.xsl, and xhtml-common.xsl have been copied.
Defaults.xsl is unchanged but pdf.xsl has been modified 1) to remove a
Publican-supplied fix for a problem with footnotes since it is now fixed by
DocBook itself, 2) to turn off using extensions for table columns as we are not
using Perl, 3) to add templates for the removal of leading and trailing blank
lines from our examples, 4) to add a parameter to set the depth for the Table Of
Contents to 3 in order to match the historical look of our documents, 5) to turn
off hyphenation since it is not honored, and 6) to update the import statements
to point to GitHub rather than SourceForge.  The html.xsl file has been modified
1) to import the chunkfast.xsl file rather than chunk.xsl in order to improve
performance on the larger documents, 2) to add a parameter to suppress the
messages produced as each individual HTML file is produced, and 3) to update the
import statements to point to GitHub rather than SourceForge.  Finally, the
xhtml-common.xsl file has been modified 1) to supply the title for the web pages
which had been passed as a parameter by Publican, 2) to turn off using
extensions for table columns as we are not using Perl, 3) to turn off scaling of
images as they are now SVG format, and 4) to remove a section referring to
Publican that was inserted into the Web pages.

Configuration File for FOP
--------------------------

In order for FOP to find the graphics files that it is to include in the PDF, it
needs information that is supplied in a configuration file, fop.cfg.  This file
also tells it to determine the fonts that are available for use on the system so
it will use the Liberation fonts if they have been installed.  This file was
created based on the sample fop.xconf provided in the fop package.

Command Files
-------------

In order to simply the execution of the tools and hide the specific syntax they
require, several command files were written.  Their use is described in the file
read1st.txt.

ooRexx Programs
---------------

Four small ooRexx programs were written to 1) automate the installation of the
packages for the Fonts, XSLTPROC, the DocBook DTD, the Docbook style sheets and
FOP, 2) to check that the creation of either the PDF or the HTML files was
successful and 3) to optionally create a Zip file of all the HTML files and
graphics.  The first is setup.rex and is normally run only once at installation.
The command files run the next two - chk4pdf.rex and chk4html.rex - so that
accurate messages are produced when the command files terminate. The last is
zip2html.rex and it is either run after the HTML files are successfully created
or by chk4html.rex automatically if the environment variable zip_html is set.
