Sources for the tools used by this package
------------------------------------------

This package uses multiple tools and files which were collected from various
locations.  In most cases they are being used unmodified but in others, changes
have been made.  This file provides information on where the tools were found in
case the user needs further documentation about them.

Fonts
-----

The style sheets supplied by Publican call for the use of two sets of fonts that
were developed by RedHat - Liberation Sans and Liberation Mono.  These font
packages are available here:
https://www.fontsquirrel.com/fonts/liberation-sans
https://www.fontsquirrel.com/fonts/liberation-mono
On Windows, the setup.rex program puts the unzipped contents of both into the
Liberation Fonts sub-folder but does not install them.  On some Linux
distributions, especially those from RedHat, these fonts may be installed by
default.  On other distributions and MacOs, they may be downloaded and installed
using the approriate tools for that platform.

XSLTPROC
--------

This is the transform tool whose home page is here:
http://xmlsoft.org/XSLT/xsltproc2.html
On MacOS this package is already installed so no further action is required.  On
Linux you must install the package using the appropriate command for your
distribution.  On Windows a link on that page takes you to the page where the
Windows binaries can be downloaded: https://www.zlatkovic.com/projects/libxml/

There are actually four packages that are required: libxlt, libxml, iconv and
zlib.  For Windows, the unzipped versions of those packages are placed by
setup.rex in sub-folders of this package.  Each of them has a bin\ directory
containing the executables that must be accessible.  Rather than adding them to
the path, the contents have been copied to the main package directory.  No
changes are needed.

FOP
---

This is the Apache tool used to create a PDF whose home page is here:
https://xmlgraphics.apache.org/fop/2.6/
The unzipped version of this package is placed in a sub-folder by setup.rex on
Windows.  Use the appropriate install tools on MacOS or on Linux to make the
tool available.  On Windows the program is run by executing an included .bat
file so nothing needs to be copied in order to make it accessible.  No changes
are needed.  This package is not needed if you are only going to build the HTML
version of the documents.

DocBook DTD and Style Sheets
----------------------------

The transform process needs access to the DocBook DTD and the DocBook style
sheets.  While these can be retrieved when needed over the Internet, performance
can be improved by up to a factor of 100 by accessing them locally.  The DTD
files are at http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/4.5/docbook-xml-4.5.zip and
the style sheets are at
https://github.com/docbook/xslt10-stylesheets/releases/download/release/1.79.2/
in the docbook-xsl-nons-1.79.2.zip file.  On Linux there are three packages that
need to be installed: docbook, docbook-xml, and docbook-xsl.  In addition, the
catalog file needs to have a line added so that the style sheets can be located.
On MacOs there are two packages that need to be installed: docbook and
docbook-xsl.  The setup program on Windows places the unzipped versions of both
the DTD files and the style sheets in a sub-folder.  No changes are needed to
either of these packages.

In addition to the unmodified style sheets, there are four style sheets that are
copied from the Publican tools located in our SVN repository on Source Forge:
https://sf.net/projects/oorexx/files/oorexx-docs-bildutils/publican_obsolete
The file PublicanWindows.zip contains a directory Publican\xsl\ and from it the
files defaults.xsl, pdf.xsl, html.xsl, and xhtml-common.xsl have been copied.
Defaults.xsl is unchanged but pdf.xsl has been modified 1) to remove a
Publican-supplied fix for a problem with footnotes since it is now fixed by
DocBook itself, 2) to turn off using extensions for table columns as we are not
using Perl, 3) to add templates for the removal of leading and trailing blank
lines from our examples, 4) to add a parameter to set the depth for the Table Of
Contents to 3 in order to match the historical look of our documents, 5) to turn
off hyphenation since it is not honored, 6) to update the import statements to
point to GitHub rather than SourceForge and 7) to remove the statement that adds
the authors to the title page as they also appear on page 2.  The html.xsl file
has been modified 1) to import the chunkfast.xsl file rather than chunk.xsl in
order to improve performance on the larger documents, 2) to add a parameter to
suppress the messages produced as each individual HTML file is produced, and 3)
to update the import statements to point to GitHub rather than SourceForge.
Finally, the xhtml-common.xsl file has been modified 1) to supply the title for
the web pages which had been passed as a parameter by Publican, 2) to turn off
using extensions for table columns as we are not using Perl, 3) to turn off
scaling of images as they are now SVG format, and 4) to remove a section
referring to Publican that was inserted into the Web pages.

Configuration File for FOP
--------------------------

In order for FOP to find the graphics files that it is to include in the PDF, it
needs information that is supplied in a configuration file, fop.cfg.  This file
also tells it to determine the fonts that are available for use on the system so
it will use the Liberation fonts if they have been installed.  This file was
created based on the sample fop.xconf provided in the fop package.

ooRexx Programs
---------------

In order to simplify the execution of the tools and hide the specific syntax
they require, several ooRexx programs were written based on the Windows batch
files created originally.

docpath.rex     - used to specify the location of the working copy of the
                  documents
docprep.rex     - used to specify the book/document to be built and to do
                  preprocessing of the files associated with that book
doc2fo.rex      - used to transform the preprocessed source files to XSL-FO
                  format
fo2pdf.rex      - used to convert the XSL-FO format file to a PDF
doc2HTML.rex    - used to transform the source files for a book/document
                  to chunked HTML files and optionally ZIP them into a single
                  file; will run the docprep program if needed
doc2pdf.rex     - a combination program that will run docprep, doc2fo and fo2PDF
                  for the specified book/document
html2zip.rex    - used to ZIP the HTML files produced by doc2HTML either as part
                  of that program or afterward as a separate step

Several other ooRexx programs are part of the package as well.

setup.rex       - used on Windows to automate the installation of the external
                  packages required
doc_props.rex   - the REQUIRES file used to create and update the properties
                  file that contains the values of various parameters used by
                  the different programs
setprop.rex     - a utility program that can display or set the values of the
                  various parameters stored in the properties file
getdocrev.rex   - a utility program that obtains the revision level and the
                  revision date of a book/document which is then used by the
                  docprep program to update the setting of the appropriate
                  values in that book's entity file.  May also be run from the
                  command line.
